docs/source/filters.rst, before:

Filters
=======

The filter language provides a set of classes that can be used to construct complex
queries for filtering data. Each filter class represents a specific filtering criterion,
allowing users to tailor their queries to their specific needs. Below is an overview of the
available filters:

Filter
------
Base class for all filters

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Filter
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Logical Operators
-----------------

And
^^^
The `And` filter performs a logical AND operation on multiple filters, requiring all specified
conditions to be true for an item to match the filter.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.And
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Not
^^^
The `Not` filter performs a logical NOT operation on a sub-filter.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Not
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Or
^^^
The `Or` filter performs a logical OR operation on multiple filters, requiring at least one
specified condition to be true for an item to match the filter.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Or
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Standard Filters
----------------
Equals
^^^^^^
The `Equals` filter checks if a property is equal to a specified value.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Equals
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Exists
^^^^^^
The `Exists` filter checks if a property exists.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Exists
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

ContainsAll
^^^^^^^^^^^
The `ContainsAll` filter checks if an item contains all specified values for a given property.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.ContainsAll
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

ContainsAny
^^^^^^^^^^^
The `ContainsAny` filter checks if an item contains any of the specified values for a given property.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.ContainsAny
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

In
^^
The `In` filter checks if a property's value is in a specified list.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.In
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Overlaps
^^^^^^^^
The `Overlaps` filter checks if two ranges overlap.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Overlaps
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Prefix
^^^^^^
The `Prefix` filter checks if a string property starts with a specified prefix.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Prefix
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Range
^^^^^
The `Range` filter checks if a numeric property's value is within a specified range that can be
open-ended.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Range
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Search
^^^^^^
The `Search` filter performs a full-text search on a specified property.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Search
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

InAssetSubtree
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The `InAssetSubtree` filter checks if an item belongs to a specified asset subtree.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.InAssetSubtree
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Geo Filters
-----------
GeoJSON
^^^^^^^
The `GeoJSON` filter performs geometric queries using GeoJSON representations.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.GeoJSON
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

GeoJSONDisjoint
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The `GeoJSONDisjoint` filter checks if two geometric shapes are disjoint.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.GeoJSONDisjoint
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

GeoJSONIntersects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The `GeoJSONIntersects` filter checks if two geometric shapes intersect.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.GeoJSONIntersects
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

GeoJSONWithin
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The `GeoJSONWithin` filter checks if one geometric shape is within another.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.GeoJSONWithin
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Data Modeling-Specific Filters
------------------------------
SpaceFilter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The `SpaceFilter` filters instances from one or more specific space(s).

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.SpaceFilter
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

HasData
^^^^^^^
The `HasData` filter checks if an instance has data for a given property.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.HasData
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

MatchAll
^^^^^^^^
The `MatchAll` filter matches all instances.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.MatchAll
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Nested
^^^^^^
The `Nested` filter applies a filter to the node pointed to by a direct relation property.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Nested
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Commit message:

Improve docs on filter usage (#1587)
Signed-off-by: dependabot[bot] <support@github.com>
Co-authored-by: renovate[bot] <29139614+renovate[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Christoffer Holm-Kjøhl <72391750+christoffer-hk@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: christoffer-hk <christoffer.holm-kjohl@cognitedata.com>
Co-authored-by: Erlend vollset <erlendvollset@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Anders Albert <60234212+doctrino@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Håkon V. Treider <haakonvt@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Per Arne Tollefsen <83636442+per-tol@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Matias Holte <matias.holte@cognite.com>
Co-authored-by: dependabot[bot] <49699333+dependabot[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/source/filters.rst, after:

Filters
=======

The filter language provides a set of classes that can be used to construct complex
queries for filtering data. Each filter class represents a specific filtering criterion,
allowing users to tailor their queries to their specific needs. 

The filter classes can be shared both by the classic CDF resources (like Assets, Time Series, Events, Files etc) and Data Modelling (Views and Instances).

When filtering on Data Modelling, the filter can be used on any container property. These can be referenced directly with a tuple notation like: 
``('space', 'view_external_id/view_version', 'property')``,
or, which is usually more convenient, one can use the ``as_property_ref`` method on the View or ViewID object like:
``myView.as_property_ref('property')``.

Below is an overview of the
available filters:

Filter
------
Base class for all filters

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Filter
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Logical Operators
-----------------

And
^^^
The `And` filter performs a logical AND operation on multiple filters, requiring all specified
conditions to be true for an item to match the filter.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.And
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Not
^^^
The `Not` filter performs a logical NOT operation on a sub-filter.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Not
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Or
^^^
The `Or` filter performs a logical OR operation on multiple filters, requiring at least one
specified condition to be true for an item to match the filter.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Or
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Standard Filters
----------------
Equals
^^^^^^
The `Equals` filter checks if a property is equal to a specified value.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Equals
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Exists
^^^^^^
The `Exists` filter checks if a property exists.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Exists
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

ContainsAll
^^^^^^^^^^^
The `ContainsAll` filter checks if an item contains all specified values for a given property.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.ContainsAll
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

ContainsAny
^^^^^^^^^^^
The `ContainsAny` filter checks if an item contains any of the specified values for a given property.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.ContainsAny
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

In
^^
The `In` filter checks if a property's value is in a specified list.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.In
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Overlaps
^^^^^^^^
The `Overlaps` filter checks if two ranges overlap.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Overlaps
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Prefix
^^^^^^
The `Prefix` filter checks if a string property starts with a specified prefix.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Prefix
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Range
^^^^^
The `Range` filter checks if a numeric property's value is within a specified range that can be
open-ended.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Range
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Search
^^^^^^
The `Search` filter performs a full-text search on a specified property.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Search
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

InAssetSubtree
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The `InAssetSubtree` filter checks if an item belongs to a specified asset subtree.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.InAssetSubtree
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Geo Filters
-----------
GeoJSON
^^^^^^^
The `GeoJSON` filter performs geometric queries using GeoJSON representations.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.GeoJSON
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

GeoJSONDisjoint
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The `GeoJSONDisjoint` filter checks if two geometric shapes are disjoint.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.GeoJSONDisjoint
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

GeoJSONIntersects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The `GeoJSONIntersects` filter checks if two geometric shapes intersect.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.GeoJSONIntersects
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

GeoJSONWithin
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The `GeoJSONWithin` filter checks if one geometric shape is within another.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.GeoJSONWithin
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Data Modeling-Specific Filters
------------------------------
SpaceFilter
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The `SpaceFilter` filters instances from one or more specific space(s).

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.SpaceFilter
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

HasData
^^^^^^^
The `HasData` filter checks if an instance has data for a given property.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.HasData
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

MatchAll
^^^^^^^^
The `MatchAll` filter matches all instances.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.MatchAll
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource

Nested
^^^^^^
The `Nested` filter applies a filter to the node pointed to by a direct relation property.

.. autoclass:: cognite.client.data_classes.filters.Nested
    :members:
    :member-order: bysource
