docs/source/quickstart.rst, before:

Quickstart
==========

There are multiple ways that a CogniteClient can be configured to authenticate with Cognite Data Fusion (CDF). For the purpose of
this quickstart we'll demonstrate the most common/recommended patterns. More details and usage examples can be found in each respective
section: :ref:`CogniteClient <class_client_CogniteClient>`, :ref:`ClientConfig <class_client_ClientConfig>`,
:ref:`GlobalConfig <class_client_GlobalConfig>`, and :ref:`credential_providers:Credential Providers`.

Instantiate a new client from a configuration file
--------------------------------------------------
Use this code to instantiate a client using a configuration file in order to execute API calls to Cognite Data Fusion (CDF).

.. note::
    How you read in the configuration file is up to you as the :ref:`CogniteClient <class_client_CogniteClient>` load method
    accepts both a dictionary and a YAML/JSON string. So for the purposes of this example, we will use the yaml library to read in a yaml file and
    substitute environment variables in the file string to ensure that sensitive information is not stored in the file.

See :ref:`CogniteClient <class_client_CogniteClient>`, :ref:`ClientConfig <class_client_ClientConfig>`,
:ref:`GlobalConfig <class_client_GlobalConfig>`, and :ref:`credential_providers:Credential Providers`
for more information on the configuration options.

.. code:: yaml

    # cognite-sdk-config.yaml
    client:
      project: "my-project"
      client_name: "my-special-client"
      base_url: "https://${MY_CLUSTER}.cognitedata.com"
      credentials:
        client_credentials:
          token_url: "https://login.microsoftonline.com/${MY_TENANT_ID}/oauth2/v2.0/token"
          client_id: "${MY_CLIENT_ID}"
          client_secret: "${MY_CLIENT_SECRET}"
          scopes: ["https://api.cognitedata.com/.default"]
    global:
      max_retries: 10
      max_retry_backoff: 10

.. testsetup:: client_config_file

    >>> getfixture("set_envs")  # Fixture defined in conftest.py
    >>> getfixture("quickstart_client_config_file")  # Fixture defined in conftest.py

.. doctest:: client_config_file

    >>> import os
    >>> from pathlib import Path
    >>> from string import Template

    >>> import yaml

    >>> from cognite.client import CogniteClient, global_config

    >>> file_path = Path("cognite-sdk-config.yaml")

    >>> # Read in yaml file and substitute environment variables in the file string
    >>> env_sub_template = Template(file_path.read_text())
    >>> file_env_parsed = env_sub_template.substitute(dict(os.environ))

    >>> # Load yaml file string into a dictionary to parse global and client configurations
    >>> cognite_config = yaml.safe_load(file_env_parsed)

    >>> # If you want to set a global configuration it must be done before creating the client
    >>> global_config.apply_settings(cognite_config["global"])
    >>> client = CogniteClient.load(cognite_config["client"])

.. testcode:: client_config_file
    :hide:

    >>> global_config.max_retries
    10
    >>> global_config.max_retry_backoff
    10
    >>> client.config.project
    'my-project'
    >>> client.config.client_name
    'my-special-client'
    >>> client.config.credentials.client_id
    'my-client-id'
    >>> client.config.credentials.client_secret
    'my-client-secret'
    >>> client.config.credentials.token_url
    'https://login.microsoftonline.com/my-tenant-id/oauth2/v2.0/token'
    >>> client.config.credentials.scopes
    ['https://api.cognitedata.com/.default']

Instantiate a new client using ClientConfig
-------------------------------------------

Use this code to instantiate a client using the ClientConfig and global_config in order to execute API calls to Cognite Data Fusion (CDF).

Use this code to instantiate a client in order to execute API calls to Cognite Data Fusion (CDF).
The :code:`client_name` is a user-defined string intended to give the client a unique identifier. You
can provide the :code:`client_name` by passing it directly to the :ref:`ClientConfig <class_client_ClientConfig>` constructor.

The Cognite API uses OpenID Connect (OIDC) to authenticate.
Use one of the credential providers such as OAuthClientCredentials to authenticate:

.. note::
    The following example sets a global client configuration which will be used if no config is
    explicitly passed to :ref:`cognite_client:CogniteClient`.
    All examples in this documentation going forward assume that such a global configuration has been set.

.. testsetup:: client_config

    >>> getfixture("set_envs")  # Fixture defined in conftest.py

.. doctest:: client_config

    >>> from cognite.client import CogniteClient, ClientConfig, global_config
    >>> from cognite.client.credentials import OAuthClientCredentials

    >>> # This value will depend on the cluster your CDF project runs on
    >>> cluster = "api"
    >>> base_url = f"https://{cluster}.cognitedata.com"
    >>> tenant_id = "my-tenant-id"
    >>> client_id = "my-client-id"
    >>> # client secret should not be stored in-code, so we load it from an environment variable
    >>> client_secret = os.environ["MY_CLIENT_SECRET"]
    >>> creds = OAuthClientCredentials(
    ...   token_url=f"https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant_id}/oauth2/v2.0/token",
    ...   client_id=client_id,
    ...   client_secret=client_secret,
    ...   scopes=[f"{base_url}/.default"]
    ... )

    >>> cnf = ClientConfig(
    ...   client_name="my-special-client",
    ...   base_url=base_url,
    ...   project="my-project",
    ...   credentials=creds
    ... )

    >>> global_config.default_client_config = cnf
    >>> client = CogniteClient()

.. testcode:: client_config
    :hide:

    >>> client.config.project
    'my-project'
    >>> client.config.client_name
    'my-special-client'
    >>> client.config.credentials.client_id
    'my-client-id'
    >>> client.config.credentials.client_secret
    'my-client-secret'
    >>> client.config.credentials.token_url
    'https://login.microsoftonline.com/my-tenant-id/oauth2/v2.0/token'
    >>> client.config.credentials.scopes
    ['https://api.cognitedata.com/.default']


Examples for all OAuth credential providers can be found in the :ref:`credential_providers:Credential Providers` section.

You can also make your own credential provider:

.. code:: python

    from cognite.client import CogniteClient, ClientConfig
    from cognite.client.credentials import Token

    def token_provider():
        ...

    cnf = ClientConfig(
      client_name="my-special-client",
      base_url="https://<cluster>.cognitedata.com",
      project="my-project",
      credentials=Token(token_provider)
    )
    client = CogniteClient(cnf)

Discover time series
--------------------
For this, you will need to supply ids for the time series that you want to retrieve. You can find
some ids by listing the available time series. Limits for listing resources default to 25, so
the following code will return the first 25 time series resources.

.. code:: python

    from cognite.client import CogniteClient

    client = CogniteClient()
    ts_list = client.time_series.list()

List available spaces in your Data Modeling project
---------------------------------------------------
In the following example, we list all spaces in the project.

.. code:: python

    from cognite.client import CogniteClient

    client = CogniteClient()
    spaces = client.data_modeling.spaces.list()

Commit message:

docs: switch quickstart note to warning (#1912)

docs/source/quickstart.rst, after:

Quickstart
==========

There are multiple ways that a CogniteClient can be configured to authenticate with Cognite Data Fusion (CDF). For the purpose of
this quickstart we'll demonstrate the most common/recommended patterns. More details and usage examples can be found in each respective
section: :ref:`CogniteClient <class_client_CogniteClient>`, :ref:`ClientConfig <class_client_ClientConfig>`,
:ref:`GlobalConfig <class_client_GlobalConfig>`, and :ref:`credential_providers:Credential Providers`.

.. warning::
    Ensure that credentials are stored and handled securely by not hard-coding it or storing them in a text file. All the below examples
    are using and referencing environment variables to store this sensitive information.

Instantiate a new client from a configuration file
--------------------------------------------------
Use this code to instantiate a client using a configuration file in order to execute API calls to Cognite Data Fusion (CDF).

.. note::
    How you read in the configuration file is up to you as the :ref:`CogniteClient <class_client_CogniteClient>` load method
    accepts both a dictionary and a YAML/JSON string. So for the purposes of this example, we will use the yaml library to read in a yaml file and
    substitute environment variables in the file string to ensure that sensitive information is not stored in the file.

See :ref:`CogniteClient <class_client_CogniteClient>`, :ref:`ClientConfig <class_client_ClientConfig>`,
:ref:`GlobalConfig <class_client_GlobalConfig>`, and :ref:`credential_providers:Credential Providers`
for more information on the configuration options.

.. code:: yaml

    # cognite-sdk-config.yaml
    client:
      project: "my-project"
      client_name: "my-special-client"
      base_url: "https://${MY_CLUSTER}.cognitedata.com"
      credentials:
        client_credentials:
          token_url: "https://login.microsoftonline.com/${MY_TENANT_ID}/oauth2/v2.0/token"
          client_id: "${MY_CLIENT_ID}"
          client_secret: "${MY_CLIENT_SECRET}"
          scopes: ["https://api.cognitedata.com/.default"]
    global:
      max_retries: 10
      max_retry_backoff: 10

.. testsetup:: client_config_file

    >>> getfixture("set_envs")  # Fixture defined in conftest.py
    >>> getfixture("quickstart_client_config_file")  # Fixture defined in conftest.py

.. doctest:: client_config_file

    >>> import os
    >>> from pathlib import Path
    >>> from string import Template

    >>> import yaml

    >>> from cognite.client import CogniteClient, global_config

    >>> file_path = Path("cognite-sdk-config.yaml")

    >>> # Read in yaml file and substitute environment variables in the file string
    >>> env_sub_template = Template(file_path.read_text())
    >>> file_env_parsed = env_sub_template.substitute(dict(os.environ))

    >>> # Load yaml file string into a dictionary to parse global and client configurations
    >>> cognite_config = yaml.safe_load(file_env_parsed)

    >>> # If you want to set a global configuration it must be done before creating the client
    >>> global_config.apply_settings(cognite_config["global"])
    >>> client = CogniteClient.load(cognite_config["client"])

.. testcode:: client_config_file
    :hide:

    >>> global_config.max_retries
    10
    >>> global_config.max_retry_backoff
    10
    >>> client.config.project
    'my-project'
    >>> client.config.client_name
    'my-special-client'
    >>> client.config.credentials.client_id
    'my-client-id'
    >>> client.config.credentials.client_secret
    'my-client-secret'
    >>> client.config.credentials.token_url
    'https://login.microsoftonline.com/my-tenant-id/oauth2/v2.0/token'
    >>> client.config.credentials.scopes
    ['https://api.cognitedata.com/.default']

Instantiate a new client using ClientConfig
-------------------------------------------

Use this code to instantiate a client using the ClientConfig and global_config in order to execute API calls to Cognite Data Fusion (CDF).

Use this code to instantiate a client in order to execute API calls to Cognite Data Fusion (CDF).
The :code:`client_name` is a user-defined string intended to give the client a unique identifier. You
can provide the :code:`client_name` by passing it directly to the :ref:`ClientConfig <class_client_ClientConfig>` constructor.

The Cognite API uses OpenID Connect (OIDC) to authenticate.
Use one of the credential providers such as OAuthClientCredentials to authenticate:

.. note::
    The following example sets a global client configuration which will be used if no config is
    explicitly passed to :ref:`cognite_client:CogniteClient`.
    All examples in this documentation going forward assume that such a global configuration has been set.

.. testsetup:: client_config

    >>> getfixture("set_envs")  # Fixture defined in conftest.py

.. doctest:: client_config

    >>> from cognite.client import CogniteClient, ClientConfig, global_config
    >>> from cognite.client.credentials import OAuthClientCredentials

    >>> # This value will depend on the cluster your CDF project runs on
    >>> cluster = "api"
    >>> base_url = f"https://{cluster}.cognitedata.com"
    >>> tenant_id = "my-tenant-id"
    >>> client_id = "my-client-id"
    >>> # client secret should not be stored in-code, so we load it from an environment variable
    >>> client_secret = os.environ["MY_CLIENT_SECRET"]
    >>> creds = OAuthClientCredentials(
    ...   token_url=f"https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant_id}/oauth2/v2.0/token",
    ...   client_id=client_id,
    ...   client_secret=client_secret,
    ...   scopes=[f"{base_url}/.default"]
    ... )

    >>> cnf = ClientConfig(
    ...   client_name="my-special-client",
    ...   base_url=base_url,
    ...   project="my-project",
    ...   credentials=creds
    ... )

    >>> global_config.default_client_config = cnf
    >>> client = CogniteClient()

.. testcode:: client_config
    :hide:

    >>> client.config.project
    'my-project'
    >>> client.config.client_name
    'my-special-client'
    >>> client.config.credentials.client_id
    'my-client-id'
    >>> client.config.credentials.client_secret
    'my-client-secret'
    >>> client.config.credentials.token_url
    'https://login.microsoftonline.com/my-tenant-id/oauth2/v2.0/token'
    >>> client.config.credentials.scopes
    ['https://api.cognitedata.com/.default']


Examples for all OAuth credential providers can be found in the :ref:`credential_providers:Credential Providers` section.

You can also make your own credential provider:

.. code:: python

    from cognite.client import CogniteClient, ClientConfig
    from cognite.client.credentials import Token

    def token_provider():
        ...

    cnf = ClientConfig(
      client_name="my-special-client",
      base_url="https://<cluster>.cognitedata.com",
      project="my-project",
      credentials=Token(token_provider)
    )
    client = CogniteClient(cnf)

Discover time series
--------------------
For this, you will need to supply ids for the time series that you want to retrieve. You can find
some ids by listing the available time series. Limits for listing resources default to 25, so
the following code will return the first 25 time series resources.

.. code:: python

    from cognite.client import CogniteClient

    client = CogniteClient()
    ts_list = client.time_series.list()

List available spaces in your Data Modeling project
---------------------------------------------------
In the following example, we list all spaces in the project.

.. code:: python

    from cognite.client import CogniteClient

    client = CogniteClient()
    spaces = client.data_modeling.spaces.list()
